jbehave-support-core/docs/General.md, before:

[Contents](../README.md)

## Base step conventions
Most of our steps use three basic columns: `name`, `data`, `contextAlias`.
The basic logic behind them is:
* `name` - Marks a __technical__ parameter name, path in request, etc. User should not rely on the value of the `name` parameter to be present in the context. 
* `data` - Data to be used.
* `contextAlias` - Test context alias to save the value from `data` to. This value is shown in the generated [report](Reporting.md) and can be further used by the user in other steps.  

## Escaping special characters

Characters `:`, `'`, `{` and `}` are treated as special characters that are used to mark an [expression command](Expression-commands.md) (`{` and `}`), delimit parameters (`:`) or to force ignoring of the `:` delimiter (using `'`) in an expression command.
When JBehave-support tries to parse the string `{x:y}` as an expression command it will return an error.
If you need use such a string you have to use `\` as an escape character for each special character individually. The string above should be typed as `\{x\:y\}`.   
You can also use the `'` character to escape whole sequences with the delimiter, so for string `11:22:33` you could just type `'11:22:33'` instead of escaping each `:`. 
This behaviour is documented in [ExpressionEvaluatorTest](../src/test/groovy/org/jbehavesupport/core/expression/ExpressionEvaluatorTest.groovy)
and in [EscapingInContext story](../src/test/groovy/org/jbehavesupport/test/sample/EscapingInContext.story).


---


## Verification

### Comparison operators

For some verification steps it's possible to use verifiers such as:  
`EQ` - equals - default when no operator is specified  
`NE` - not equals  
`LT` - lower than  
`LE` - lower than or equal to  
`GT` - greater than  
`GE` - greater than or equal to  
`CONTAINS` - String contains another String  
`NOT_CONTAINS` - String doesn't contain another String  
`SIZE_EQ` - Size of collection is exactly expected value  
`SIZE_LT` - Size of collection is lower than expected value  
`SIZE_LE` - Size of collection is lower than or equal to expected value  
`SIZE_GT` - Size of collection is greater than expected value  
`SIZE_GE` - Size of collection is greater than or equal to expected value  
`REGEX_MATCH` - Matches String using regular expression - matches whole string  
`REGEX_FIND` - Check if regular expression matches any part of given value - matches data on one line

The following sample step compares data from a ClientResponse from MYAPP against values in test context using operators.

```
Then [ClientResponse] values from [MYAPP] match:
| name        | verifier | expectedValue |
| client.cuid | NE       | {CP:CUID_1}   |
| client.cuid | NE       | {CP:CUID_2}   |
| client.cuid | NE       | {CP:CUID_3}   |
```

Following step compares values in every row (default verifier: EQ)

```
Then following data are compared:
| data              | expectedValue      | verifier |
| TEST              | TEST               | EQ       |
| TEST_CONTAINS     | TEST               | CONTAINS |
| {CP:ACTUAL_VALUE} |{CP:EXPECTED_VALUE} |          |
```

#### Limiting verification error count in logs

Verification steps use soft assertions to report errors - by default only first 10 comparison errors are reported (to avoid out of memory problems with long logs).  
This number can be changed by setting the property `verifier.max.assert.count`.


---

Commit message:

- Added a new MATH_EQ verifier which attempts to convert the values to a double, then compares them

jbehave-support-core/docs/General.md, after:

[Contents](../README.md)

## Base step conventions
Most of our steps use three basic columns: `name`, `data`, `contextAlias`.
The basic logic behind them is:
* `name` - Marks a __technical__ parameter name, path in request, etc. User should not rely on the value of the `name` parameter to be present in the context. 
* `data` - Data to be used.
* `contextAlias` - Test context alias to save the value from `data` to. This value is shown in the generated [report](Reporting.md) and can be further used by the user in other steps.  

## Escaping special characters

Characters `:`, `'`, `{` and `}` are treated as special characters that are used to mark an [expression command](Expression-commands.md) (`{` and `}`), delimit parameters (`:`) or to force ignoring of the `:` delimiter (using `'`) in an expression command.
When JBehave-support tries to parse the string `{x:y}` as an expression command it will return an error.
If you need use such a string you have to use `\` as an escape character for each special character individually. The string above should be typed as `\{x\:y\}`.   
You can also use the `'` character to escape whole sequences with the delimiter, so for string `11:22:33` you could just type `'11:22:33'` instead of escaping each `:`. 
This behaviour is documented in [ExpressionEvaluatorTest](../src/test/groovy/org/jbehavesupport/core/expression/ExpressionEvaluatorTest.groovy)
and in [EscapingInContext story](../src/test/groovy/org/jbehavesupport/test/sample/EscapingInContext.story).


---


## Verification

### Comparison operators

For some verification steps it's possible to use verifiers such as:  
`EQ` - equals - default when no operator is specified  
`NE` - not equals  
`MATH_EQ` - 'mathematical' equality - first converts the strings to numbers, and then compares them. 
For example, the following would resolve as true: `1.2E3` MATH_EQ `1200`.
Uses Double.valueOf(String s) for conversion, so consult Oracle documentation if uncertain about behaviour.  
`LT` - lower than  
`LE` - lower than or equal to  
`GT` - greater than  
`GE` - greater than or equal to  
`CONTAINS` - String contains another String  
`NOT_CONTAINS` - String doesn't contain another String  
`SIZE_EQ` - Size of collection is exactly expected value  
`SIZE_LT` - Size of collection is lower than expected value  
`SIZE_LE` - Size of collection is lower than or equal to expected value  
`SIZE_GT` - Size of collection is greater than expected value  
`SIZE_GE` - Size of collection is greater than or equal to expected value  
`REGEX_MATCH` - Matches String using regular expression - matches whole string  
`REGEX_FIND` - Check if regular expression matches any part of given value - matches data on one line

The following sample step compares data from a ClientResponse from MYAPP against values in test context using operators.

```
Then [ClientResponse] values from [MYAPP] match:
| name        | verifier | expectedValue |
| client.cuid | NE       | {CP:CUID_1}   |
| client.cuid | NE       | {CP:CUID_2}   |
| client.cuid | NE       | {CP:CUID_3}   |
```

Following step compares values in every row (default verifier: EQ)

```
Then following data are compared:
| data              | expectedValue      | verifier |
| TEST              | TEST               | EQ       |
| TEST_CONTAINS     | TEST               | CONTAINS |
| {CP:ACTUAL_VALUE} |{CP:EXPECTED_VALUE} |          |
```

#### Limiting verification error count in logs

Verification steps use soft assertions to report errors - by default only first 10 comparison errors are reported (to avoid out of memory problems with long logs).  
This number can be changed by setting the property `verifier.max.assert.count`.


---
